### MOD 2 DELIVERABLE

#### Cold Outreach
* https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_two/cold_outreach_i_guidelines.md

The mentor/alumni that I contacted was Tommasina Miller (slack; google-hangouts)
6/28/17
She didn't respond. I'm going to reach out to Noah Berman (slack) (as of 7/29/17)
6/29/17
He didn't respond. I'm going to reach out to Adam K Jensen.

In the long run there is no doubt that a relationship with a mentor would be a huge benefit, but actually a major current goal for me. The question isn't 'If'... its 'Who'.

#### (Collaborative Communication)
* https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_two/collaborative_communication.md

This gear-up preceded our first multi-member group project, starting off with a conversation about business work styles/tools: Agile, Waterfall, the Tuckman's stages (Forming;Storming;Norming;Performing;Adjourning), and then in the group discussion we focused on the twin readings of "The Importance of Asking Questions" and "Helping Others Save Face". Our group responded well to the instructions within the articles, and talked about how both approaches, while important and definitely the direction we'd like to head, still required an evolution of the skill. (For instance, merely putting a 'question-mark' at the end of my sentences doesn't truly escape judgment or conflict). One of my project partners pointed out that in reality it's about Intention. That the intention behind the question is what opens the door for trust and open communication. When discussing project management, the group focused on how interconnected Facilitation is with Leadership. I used to really like the quote, "Lead me, follow me, or get out of my way." But this article/discussion nuanced my relationship with the quote, as I feel that facilitation of community (somewhat disconnected from traditional understanding of "leadership") is the MAIN attribute that makes for good leaders. I particularly enjoyed the discussion on the Mitigating Fault chapter of "How to Win Friends in the Digital Age", where one of my group members pointed out "how ego is tethered to productivity". A good leader mitigates fault by helping the blame-worthy 'save face' in such a way that it puts them back into the realm of learning/moving forward.

#### GEAR UP 1 (Privilege)
*
This gear up focused not only on the notion of privilege, but on identifying ways in which we individually have seen privilege and/or marginalization in ways not-so-often discussed. A couple of the items on the check-list sheet we were first given included: Stating whether we've--"ever had someone make assumptions about us based on how we looked." ;"been able to make mistakes without having people attribute behavior to flaws in our group/race"; "ever thought twice about calling the police in the event of trouble";"been able to show affection for our significant other in public without fear of ridicule/violence". Ultimately I found the questions very stimulating, as it got us to focus on elements of privilege that dive deeper into the innate yet subtle privileges that occur in society, rather than just the blatant ones. One of the more potent reminders of my own privilege that I hear in life, but also found on the sheet, was about whether I'd ever been talked over because of an inability to articulate. As a white, articulate male with a loud voice, I find myself in English circles regularly at the helm of conversation. I have been told in the past that, for some, it's difficult to get a word in around me when I'm talking (particularly) to other males/aggressive personalities that allow for rapid-fire, and loud, conversation without much break--a phenomenon that I try to curb by staying conscious of others in the group and relative amounts of talking time. However, while studying abroad, I experienced regularly the other side of the equation: when my spanish level was still novice (took me 8 months to start feeling confident), I would regularly be discouraged when I attempted to talk and, either through error or inability to articulate my thought, would watch my words fall flat on my audience. This was a very discouraging and impactful time of my life--especially as I came from a background where my voice WAS respected and listened to (for the most part). Another thought-inspiring aspect of privilege I hadn't considered was where and how one chooses to work/gets work accomplished most efficiently. Those from loud or violent communities of course would have an entirely different relationship with 'study environment' than I have. I was encouraged to consider how my *need* for quiet may be attributable to coming up in a middle-class, rural environment. I think the real value of this Gear up was in acknowledging the multifold of possible manifestations of privilege, and the nuances that drive our society. My call to action was simply to continue my dedication to learning how to be a partner, comrade, and friend in instances where marginalization occurs. To stay conscious of how my privileges have contributed to my own experience, and humble to my ignorance of other's experiences.

#### (Feedback Reflection II) -- SEE LINK FOR FULL GROUP RETRO
* https://github.com/turingschool/career-development-curriculum/blob/master/module_two/feedback_ii.md

** LINK TO RETRO: https://gist.github.com/thedanielvogelsang/f7bf80223302906a93a5ad8ce44f252f

Since our group retro, I have intentionally reached out and had feedback reflection time with two of the three peers I worked on Bike-Share with. Both Eddie and Des gave me exceedingly kind reviews, and while Eddie had 'nothing negative to say', Des helped me address some of the frictions that have occurred in a later group. We have worked hard, Des and I, at maintaining a friendship despite communication lapses. As time has gone on, we have gotten much better at communicating patiently and with the intention of listening first before responding. She and I are currently working on our final project together, and I would hope that, like me, she would report that things have improved tremendously.

By speaking with both these members, it helped me feel confident in what I bring to the team: skepticism, direction, and strategy; while also cognizant (for the nth time) that my general serious and direct demeanor is intimidating for some.


#### GEAR UP 2 (Being an Ally)
* https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/allyship.markdown

* I loved this gear up. The conversations elicited were dynamic and valuable to many in the room, i could tell, largely predicated on the willingness of the instructor to allow the group to steer the conversation wherever it led us. My small group talked a lot about the 'gray-ness' of the notion of oppression. Some members of oppressed groups make topics of oppression and privilege a defining feature of their lives, of their identity. Others (such as an Asian-American member of my small group) who have been discriminated against aim to 'rise above', rather than admit victimhood. Still others admit the concept of privilege but don't read much into it past acknowledging its existence, and the importance to change the system over time toward more inclusivity. I feel that the Gear-Up, with its scenarios, gave us an opportunity to dive into real-world examples of micro-agressions, and discuss whether or not being "an ally" demanded of us that we speak up in smaller cases of insensitivity, rather than focusing on larger, more explicit examples of injustice. The first article, which interviewed four different women activists, was extremely valuable, i felt. Those--people working on the front lines of these social problems-- are the people from whom we have much to gain in perspective. All in all i left the GearUp feeling satisfied with the experience and its effect on those who participated.


#### Feedback Reflection III / Jihari Window
The juxtoposition of the Jihari Window with the last group I worked with has me feeling conflicted. The Jihari window exercise left me feeling exceedingly confident about how people perceived me--words like "complex", "intelligent", "kind", "communicative", "calm" in my "arena"-- and a whole host of positive blindspots:
caring
focused
dependable
adaptable
able
hardworking
honest
driven
accepting
bold
friendly
accountable
energetic
clever
searching
relaxed
knowledgeable.

And yet, this last week I was asked to sign a disciplinary plan because some students felt I came off too-aggressively. To be honest I'm not sure how to reconcile these things. I try hard to make people feel welcome--complimenting good ideas regularly, attempting to find space for everyones ideas, staying hyper-conscious of who has and who hasn't talked, and never ever try to *intentionally* make someone feel bad or stupid. Yet nonetheless, evidently my natural form of communication still leaves some feeling attacked. While I'd like to work on this, I also wish there were some way to find an objective audience to oversee my interaction with others without sacrificing the organic-ness and natural-ness of the interaction. Im at the point where I quite honestly get such VASTLY different appraisals of me that Im not sure whats true and whats not. Am I, as some of my cohort peers have reported, skilled with words and inspiring? Or how much of this is subjective... and therefore worth giving a grain of salt to? I take it very personally when I'm told I've left someone feeling unwelcome, or without a voice--and very much want to work on myself in ways that curb that phenomenon. But I'm beginning to suspect that the almost hypochondriac-like state and constant anxiety i feel about how I'm affecting others leaves me more tense and uptight, and less capable of perceiving things objectively, than is worth it.

#### StrengthsFinders Teamwork

Eddie and I talked today about all sorts of things, and were surprised that we shared (and in both our cases often suffer from) two major strengths in common: Accomplishment and Restorative. The accomplishment piece we both agreed drove a certain angst that cycles constantly in and out of our lives. An angst that occurs at the end of every day in which we don't feel like we've 'moved forward'. Restorative, on the other hand, leads us to dissect and dwell on our own personal (self-perceived) faults and room for growth. Eddie gave me quite a few solid recommendations to better cope and utilize our strengths in a productive manner: First, he said that he had had to learn early in life to quickly differentiate 'workable' from 'powerless' situations of inadequacy. In other words, he said to work on figuring out what things he DOES have effect over and which he does not, and to let the latter go. He tells me that this has been exceedingly difficult, but that with time, it has brought a lot more patience and self-forgiveness. Secondly, he suggested time-boxing energy-depleting tasks and events throughout the week. He said that there was a time when he would pressure himself to show up to events that he knew would enhance his anxiety--simply because of the desire to please people. Becoming more in touch with his own tried-and-true sources of positive thinking and energy, and learning to trust his routine, have been helpful there.

#### GEAR UP 3 (Fake News)

Like many a gear up (or, better stated, 'societal issue'), the conversation left me feeling like i had a better-founded understanding of the issue, but did not leave me feeling any closer to solving it. In the gear up we discussed how the tech industry (specifically through 'bots') have unfairly influenced the market dynamics / abused the algorithms of popular platforms like "Twitter" and "Google", but it also focused heavily on the ethics and moral arguments for and against the call for regulations. The conversation definitely satisfied my intellectual needs, but once again did not focus on concrete movements/possible fixes. While the concept of 'fake news'--very much itself interchangeable with "propaganda"--is nothing new, the anonymity of the internet and morally-deplorable opposing political factions driving the extremism, we are watching an ever-growing divide in this country that delivers very genuine cause for alarm. No longer do citizens in this country draw their understandings of the world from even remotely similar bodies of information--'the facts' now is just as much a subjective term as 'opinions', and, accordingly, people are increasingly unwilling and incapable of communicating over their differences and arriving at a satisfactory agreement somewhere in the middle. I think this gear up did a good job at increasing awareness, but I would have liked the Mod4 hosts (who did a great job leading discussion) to have brought material to consider what companies/organizations/campaigns are currently positioning themselves to counter-act this trend.

#### (Using Agile/Communication in Projects)

I think my skills with communication platforms like Waffle and GitHub have grown immensely. I enjoy very much the Agile iterative-approach; taking things in chunks, accepting feedback, and pushing for production by creating products that are capable of evolving there-after, rather than solely shooting for perfectionism before anything makes it out into the real world. I thought working in a group brought different challenges throughout the mod. My first group struggled simply becaues of lack of familiarity/fluency github, but quickly and efficiently constructed a group flow that not only allowed the groups manager to have an active role in overseeing the project, but also that evenly distributed the workload in such a way that everyone got to do what they wanted to do and challenge themselves. My second group project, more fluent in GitHub but less willing and capable of productive communication, struggled not because of project but personal disagreements. This severely limited each members ability to (a) feel comfortable in the group setting, (b) present creative solutions without worrying about rejection, and (c) tackle confidently new elements of the project that they didn't know well how to accomplish. Group dynamics not only shrunk my personal enjoyment of the project, it shrunk my (and our) ability to grow as coders as well. I'm still working out my reflections on what was learned from my second group.
